---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Back to Basics
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-09-03
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
---

## A New Day
JavaScript has taught me many new things in just a week. It’s taught me that I need to sit down and practice it like I own it. The process of learning this language requires a lot of loops to the beginning of explanations to fully comprehend. It’s a new language; it’s not easy to understand and master. Learning to code in a new language is always tricky and never easy. I remember my first “Hello World” program my freshman year… I wanted to cry. Fortunately, I don’t feel the same way anymore. The privilege of already knowing other languages—Java, C, and C++ —quickened learning the basics. Although a year ago, I tried to learn this language, but I never hunkered down and finished the task. I look back and wish I did so I could be ahead of the game.
#Spark of Creativity 
As I was replacing the int, strings, booleans with ‘let’ or ‘const’ for every variable I declared, I realized this language is quite fun. In the past, people would refer to as easy as if you are talking to a baby; I don’t see where they get that from. This is a unique language that is the key to Software Engineering, and everyone should take the time to learn it.  Being in the science field, especially in undergraduate, Computer Scientist has been strictly learning hard, physical sciences, and math, but rarely introduced to letting their mind open to creative opportunities. JavaScript has more opportunities to bring out the creative minds in Computer Science; it's exciting. The art of learning what you don’t know is an inspiring feeling.
## Let’s talk about let
Since JavaScript is entirely new for my eyes, it intimidates me. I personally don’t do well under pressure; therefore, when I practice learning the language, I clam up, and everything goes straight out of my brain. Learning something new is hard, and your mind tells you to quit, but I know this language will help me from this day forward. I realized as I went through tutorial after tutorial, I would 100% use this language in a career more than I thought I would. Therefore, I know I will never quit learning it and being fascinated by its ability to help develop software. One of the most impressive things I believe about JavaScript is there’s no integer data type used. To declare a variable, its always ‘var,’ ‘let,’ or ‘const.’ Being in Computer Science for four years now, ‘int’ was the holy grail that we used for almost everything. The ability to just use fewer data types is satisfying because there’s less ambiguity when declaring variables. There’s something so beautiful to this attribute of this language. 
## Computer Athleticism
Who knew that I would be doing four workouts a day in college? Two on the computer and two with weights? I would have never guessed. With the capabilities of JavaScript and syntax, I will be coding for long-distance soon. Never would I ever thought I would be a Computer Athlete, since I have always been just an athlete for more than half of my life. The art of competing, critically-thinking, and striving to do my best while learning a new language AND creating software sounds exhilarating. It will drive me to succeed, build character, and confidence.  Confidence is key.
## Conclusion
It’s clear that JavaScript is new to me, but I am excited to learn more about it. Although I am a Senior and can’t wait to graduate, something about this semester tells me JavaScript, and I will be best friends with excellent outcomes. However, I must remind myself that when competing than to stay competent:
Success is not linear
“what you do in practice, will reflect what you do in the game”(my 8th-grade soccer coach)
This is a marathon, not a race
